you
this is part two of my interview with
editor Emma D Dryden to learn more about
Emma and all the services she has for
authors and illustrators go to her
website at Dryden books calm authors are
always wanting to know sort of what the
latest trends are as far as topics and
and formats and that sort of thing and
editors are often conferences saying
don't worry about the trends you need to
write what you want what you're
passionate about
but trends do exist and is there
anything going on now that authors
should be paying attention to yeah I
think you're exactly right Laura
and I've been on both sides of that
conversation where all don't worry about
trends don't write to trends by the time
you figure out a trend it will be over
in six months and your book will be out
for two or three years mm-hmm you know
what's interesting about that kind of
conversation is that what we're seeing
now is that there are ways to publish
much faster than there used to be so
there could be something to writing to a
trend I would say that something perhaps
or self publishers they're the most
flexible and malleable to kind of suit
that but that being said as an editor
wearing my purely editorial hat I don't
like to encourage authors to write to
trends just because often when we're
aware of a trend the publishers who are
publishing to that trend tend to have
enough in the pipeline to suit that
trend mom that being said there is
something that I'm seeing Maura that I
think the industry wants to see more of
and that's Illustrated novels and that
could be a combination of graphic novels
but not even wholly graphic novels it's
sort of kind of thinking about what
Brian Selznick did with some of his
recent books Hugo Cabret
you know just novels really strong
expand
it's fiction that's supplemented and
augmented by visuals hmm and I think we
we have always enjoyed that in middle
grade
I mean we're gonna see more of it in Y
egg I think the success of a small
publishing house like first second which
certainly is steeped in a tradition of
comics and graphic novels but they're
doing some very interesting Illustrated
fiction we're seeing more of it I
personally love it I think you know I
was reading just yesterday that and I'm
going to look down to quote this here
teens are you using video and photos to
communicate rather than texting and what
teens have said about this is it simpler
and they love the power of the picture
so that's interesting to me that that's
how teens are thinking about
communicating so I would think there's a
natural extension to the thought of this
is how teens might enjoy experiencing
story is is through more picture right
purely picture but in combination so now
authors don't worry if you're not an
illustrator that's okay but it I think
it asks authors to think more visually
which can be very interesting for you do
and I've noticed this too when - talking
about apps where authors have to think
more visually if they're going to start
thinking about making apps in other in
other sort of trends I think this
doesn't quite answer what the trends are
but it answers how do we find out about
the trends there are a couple ways to do
this and I encourage authors and
illustrators to be on Twitter if you
Liam Barrett and/or editor agents
authors children's media follow CBI
follow Dryden books follow all of us on
Twitter because we are often talking
about what we're seeing as trends or one
we're seeing
is kind of planning down in the
marketplace what's speeding up you know
there's conversation going on on Twitter
that authors might find valuable to this
and there's one other sort of site that
I'd like to encourage particularly
middle grade and why a Oh evidence it's
why pulse pu LLC there on Twitter as
well at my pulse but this is daily news
and insights into the millennial
generation this is tweens teens and
Millennials for media and marketing
professionals and I find it very very
interesting to hear what teens are
actually saying whose oh fourteen and
middle grade there are resources to kind
of keep you in the mix as to what teens
are interested in how they're
communicating how they're experiencing
story how they're being entertained for
ninja book authors
I think the trends still tend to be
curriculum based material for what
topics might be perennial and also
character driven hear that a lot picture
books because whether you call it a
trend right now I think those are
excellent points and I think now more
than ever it's really essential that
authors be able to get into the mindset
of their audience especially those
middle grade and teenagers who really
are a much more visual generation than
we were because they've grown up with
the internet and Facebook and apps and
you know even the way the commercials
I've been noticing are presented to this
generation it's they're they're just
structured differently than commercials
were in the past because that's the way
these kids are used to getting their
little sound bytes of information and I
think it does it's it's it's a very
exciting time because like you said
adding visuals to why a novels is a
wonderful idea and
I think it should be embraced personally
I can see how that would enhance the
whole reading experience quite a bit
exactly exactly and it's two again for
Arthur's who don't fancy themselves
illustrators and I and I hope they won't
start illustrating if they can't
illustrate because we don't need that
you know publishers are thinking about
this agents are thinking about this so
authors you know you can trust that this
will become part of the larger dialogue
we're discussing this at MCA WI I'm sure
you have you know information on this do
CBI so this is just part of the larger
dialogue about what we're seeing coming
down the pike and it is something
definitely if you're self-publishing you
need to keep in mind because you want to
be on par with what's being produced by
the publishing houses
you